Since we're on the topic of design, we need to discuss versioning.
Because remember, this is essentially a data access layer.
So any change that we make could potentially break a client, and
we don't want to do that.
So any new feature, any new changes that we need to make,
need to be done under a different version.
Now you might think, I don't need to version my API.
This is a simple API that I'm writing for myself, no one else.
Yeah, you still need to.
Because how many times have you written something,
then you came back to it later and wished, man,
I wish I would have done that.
It's the story of my life.
So just think about versioning.
It doesn't take a lot of time.
In fact, it's very easy.
So just always include versioning, and you will have a lot of
always think yourself for it later.
So we need to think about how we want to include versioning here.
And the easiest and most straightforward thing to do is just to include it in
the URL.
For one, that makes it easy for clients,
because they know exactly what version that they're using.
But for us, it also makes it easy because we can route requests
to a specific controller based upon that URL.
So if we have V2 for tickets,
that means that we can route that request to our version two ticket
controller.
Because yes, we will have different versions of controllers.
So this just makes the most straightforward thing to do.
We could use headers or something else,
but that just overcomplicates things.
And life is complicated enough.
Don't complicate your software.
So now the question becomes, how do we implement this?
Well, we could use modules.
And in fact,
we have a course here at Laricasts by Mateus called Modular Laravel.
It's a very good, I highly recommend it.
There's also a little bit of setup involved.
And while that might be a great approach,
that's not what we are going to do.
We are just going to modify the default.
So that inside of app and HTTP like controllers.
So what we will do is have a new folder.
We'll call it API so that all of our API related controllers will be
inside of the API folder,
just so that we could separate that from any other controller that would
handle our typical web application.
And then inside of there,
we would have a folder for our different versions.
So here we would have V1 and then V2 and V3 and so on.
And then we will have our controllers for those different versions there.
We'll do the same type of thing for any other type of class that we need,
like requests or resources or things like that.
So let's create a controller.
Let's go to the command line, PHP artisan, make controller.
It already knows what I want to do.
So whenever we create the controller,
we just need to specify the folder structure that we want.
So API slash V1 slash ticket controller,
and that's going to get us a ticket controller with the folder structure
that we want.
But let's also use the resource flag.
That way it will scaffold all of the methods that we will need because,
you know, we need the index method.
We need the store method.
We need the update, delete.
There's several methods that we need.
It'd be useful just to have those automatically there.
And we could also go ahead and tell it to not only create the requests that
we would want to use,
but also type in them inside of our controller.
So this will create a tickets controller.
Let's go to controllers, API V1,
and then ticket controller.
And we can see that we have the show method is being type hint with ticket.
If we look at the store method,
it is being type hinted with the store ticket request.
Now, if we look at the requests folder,
it's going to be a little bit different because it created those requests
directly inside of the requests folder.
And instead I would want to do the same thing for the requests folder.
I would want to do the same thing for the requests that we did with the
controllers so that we would have requests and then API and then V1.
And then we would have our requests.
That way we just keep things structured the same and we aren't mixing and
matching our request objects.
We do need to change our namespace here.
So this is API V1.
We need to make the same change inside of update ticket,
but then we also need to make that change inside of our controller.
So let's go back to the tickets controller and let's change this use
statement and that should get that fixed up.
So what we can do inside of the index method, we will simply return.
We will use our ticket model.
And for right now, we'll just return all of our tickets.
We won't worry about storing or anything else like that,
at least for right now.
And that should get us going.
Although we need to set up the route for this.
Now we could go inside of api.php and we could add our routes here.
And in fact, we have that tickets route from the previous episode,
but I don't want to do that because then we would end up with a file that
has all of our routes for all of our different versions and that can get
very unruly very quickly.
So instead, what I want to do is break it out by files so that the api.php
file will be our base API routes.
So things that don't need versioning like login and register,
you know, those could be defined inside of api.php,
but then we would have an api underscore v1.
And this is where we would put all of our routes for our version one.
So we could have our route and then we could say resource tickets.
And then we would use the ticket controller class.
Now, we don't really want to use resource here because this is going to set up
routes for URLs that we don't need.
Like, for example, this would set up an api v1 tickets create,
and we don't need that URL because the create endpoint would be for showing the
form for creating a ticket.
We don't have a form to show.
So instead of using resource, we can use api resource.
And this is going to set up the routes for only the things that we need.
So this is going to give us the ability for tickets,
for getting the ID, and for storing tickets.
But it's not going to set up routes for the unnecessary things for an API,
which would be for showing forms.
So this create method inside of our tickets controller,
we can just get rid of because we don't need it.
The same is true for the edit method.
So we can get rid of that, and we'll leave everything else there.
But we also have to tell our application to now load our version 1 API routes.
And we can do that inside of our route service provider,
that is inside of the app folder, providers, route service provider.
And inside of the boot method,
we're going to see where the routes are being set up with this closure.
So we can see that the API middleware with the prefix of API
is being mapped to routes api.php.
We can essentially copy this, and we just need to make a couple of changes
so that the prefix would be api slash v1,
and that would map to the api underscore v1.php file.
So that now all of the routes that we define inside of our version 1 route file,
we don't have to say v1 slash and then tickets.
It's automatically going to be done because the prefix has been set that way.
So if we go to Postman, let's create a new request.
Although let's create a new collection first,
and let's rename it to tickets.
And then we will add a request here.
We'll call this get tickets,
and we will make a request for our localhost 8000 api v1 tickets.
And whenever we send that request, we should get a response back
that shows all of our tickets, and it does.
And so now that we are done designing our API,
and we have data to work with,
we need to focus on authentication and authorization,
which we will start in the next episode.